# 6 May 2015

## Breakfast

	Jade and I have scheduled to meet up at the marche central in gueliz for breakfast.  I get a taxi and head to the new city.  After a little bit the taxi stops and a beautiful woman gets in.  She's probably in her mid 20s and wearing western clothing. She sits in the front seet and we continue on.  I start to wonder what the story is for this girl.  She and the driver casually chat in arabic, which is still completely impenetrable to me. I wonder if its his daughter or something getting a ride.  Then I realize maybe she's a working girl and I look the type of guy who comes to Morocco to cause trouble.  We come to my stop, I pay and I'm left wondering. 
	I stand and wait for Jade ot Arrive.  I'm a few minutes early and I have my backpack with the scotch in it .   Across the street from the Flower Market is a government looking building.  Being that its the shady side of the street I wait in fron t of it for Jade to arrive.   Every few minutes a different man would walk by in dress military uniform with no less than 30 medals on any of them.   She messages me and tells me she's a few minutes late ansd she would fill me in later.   A few minutes later she arrives and tells me the story of the trouble of her taxi rides.   The first cab was doing shady things like refusing to turn on the meter.  Even if the fare is better its always a pain to go off book.  So she got out and got in another and they did it again.  He refused ot put on the meter, and refused to let her out, when she finally did she was in no spot for another taxi to pick her up so it was a few extra minutes.   There was a good bit of advice  "In Marrakech everyone is trying to rip you off"   I spoke to her about my odd experience and she explained that taxis here have 3 ceparate meters so you can have three separate fares simultaneously.  The girl in the front seat was just another fare, probably.  We walk to a breakfast restaurant, and sit under an awning and look out on the street, sitting side by side as is common Europe and much of the world.   
	We run into one of her friends there, a fellow ex-pat who is dressed in a fabulous flowing dress.  We all start to talk about hte fashion and I start to realize how the hirarchy goes.  The people who are treated poorly are those who are dressed like tourists.  The people who look like they are prepared for a 30 mile tropical high and not just walking about the city.   These people are almost always wearing a piece of attire that lets you know where they have come from.  As if wearing a USA tshirt will make them more comfortable in a foreign land.
	But the ones who are treated even worse are those who are foreigners wearing traditional clothes.  They are given an almost hostile treatment, and I kind of understand it.  They come into your land and try and pretend they  know and understand what its like to be from wherever you are.   It's probably a function of the type of person to do this is normally a quite obnoxious person on their own.   The college proffesor who takes himself a little too seriously,   the know-it-all from your office or the self important intellectual who actually isnt all that smart, these are the classic examples of those.  
	
##Jardin Marjoelle

	We make our way from breakfast to the Jardin Marjorelle, a  beautiful botanical garden Yves Saint Laurent owned before his death.    His ashes are scattered there so its a beautiful combination of peaceful and classy and a touch somber.   It's obviously a destination for the fashionable, and every so often there is a  girl dressed to the nines with makeup and outfit clearly designed to match and coordinate with the photo that everyone takes there.  For some it seems like the reason for their whole trip to Morocco.  Jade and I wander around the gardens looking at the plants and watching the gardeners water the trees and plants in desert friendly ways.  Buiding little rings of dirt around the base of the plant to hold in the water.  We walk around and generally enjoy the time and chat about the universe and nothing, inspired by the place.  We pass his memorial, and walk towards the Museum of Berber Culture.   We have to wait a few minutes because the museum is full.   We take the opportunity to take a couple of photos in front of the beautiful Moroccan blue wall.   Everything is so vibrant and beautiful that you can't help but take pictures of everything, including yourself.    
	We enter and Jade tells me all about the berber culture,  her man being a berber.  Born in a tent.  I begin to realize what an amazing world it is because this man who was born in a tent is able to spend time with a woman born thousands of miles away in America.  To his grandparents its like telling them their grandson was dating a girl from the moon.  I learned about the culture and the history and  technology of the Berbers both ancient and recent.  It's often tough to tell if something is 100 or 500 years old with a group such as that.   	We leave the museum and return to the garden.   Enjoying it a bit longer while we stroll around and marvel at the serenity of the place.   
	We leave the gardens and look at the stores across the way,   its in some respects the touristy stuff you'd expect.   On the other hand is that the design and craftsmanship is far superior to the average trinkets.   We wander about and she informs me its time for her to run a couple of errands and get back to work.   The first thing she has to do is grocery shop for a couple of things,  I immediately jump at the chance to join her.   Groceries in the modern side is the great equalizer of humanity.   You see more about the influences on a culture with the grocery store  than most other places.   So we wander about and its suprisingly european in content.  We grab a  taxi and make plans to meet for dinner.  The first taxi is reluctant but compliant.  They drop me off and I walk back the rest of the way to a nap, and have the hotel schedule a ride for the next morning to the airport. The scheduling takes some negotiation my host is worried about how much time I will need and all manner of other things.  Eventually a mutually acceptable time is determined.
## Dinner
	We are planning to meet up at a  place called "Marrakchi" right on the main square.   I wander about the square for a few minutes then get a message saying Jade is going to be a few minutes late.  No worries, I'll just wander some more.   Eventually the shoe shine guy corners me and I think to myself "I have been walking in dirt a lot these few days"  so he quotes me a price of 20dh, which is good and fair so I'll use the time while I wait.  He takes me over to near some juice carts so we are out of the way and I can prop myself up on the cart.   He gets to work and does a fair job.   Then at the end of it he flips over the brush and suggests that the price is 200dh.  Knowing this is more than I've ever paid for any shoe shine ever I'm not interested in haggling.   I hand him his 20 dh and walk off .  I'm sure he gets quite a bit of the foreigners feeling embarassed enough to just pay him the exhorbitant rate to make it worth trying this.   Luckily, I'm not one of them, and Jade has texted me that she is there so we meet up and go in for dinner.
	She has moroccan salads again (she instructs me that it really is her favorite dish) and I have the obligatory Tagine as my time in Marrakech is running short.  It was delicious but very warm.   We discuss our plans for the next few days.  Both of us are separately going to Casablanca,  we decide we dont want to meet up there, so she gets time with the people she's visiting.  A belly dancer starts her shift, which was odd considering the fact that the place was all but empty.   I was left alone being that they probably thought she and I were together and that I would get in trouble to pay much attention.   In actuallity it just seemed odd to do much more than a passing glance.   We finish dinner and part ways,   I know my next day starts with a flight and I walk through the noise of the market.  Through chicken square one more time.   Passed all the vendors in full swing and feel at ease within the city even at peak chaos.   I have finally adjusted to Marrakech, just in time for my last night there.