# 5 May 2015 

## Morning: 

I awake in the mid morning to the sun and the sounds and smells at the completion of my first night in Marrakech. I remember there is breakfast as part of my stay so I go to the roof and get ready to enjoy it.  The breakfast is delicious all sorts of small tajines filled with Jam and Honey And Butter.  Two types of bread and my breakfast companion was a bee, who seemed really intent on taking all the honey back he could.  The sun was warm and beating down over my breakfast table on the roof.  I took the tea and finished it.  Went to pour myself another glass, but failed to pour from height, turns out it was worse!  Sitting and overlooking the city theres something you don't realize is how peaceful it can look from above.  The moutains loom in the background to protect the city, apparently from the passage of time.  Minarets dot the entire landscap and convince me that this spot is where I should be at 5pm.

##Palace
	I decided that the place for my next visit was the Bahia Palace and Gardens.  I map out the route and start the walk.  Following the blue line on my phone with my little red dot.   Occaisionally the red dot jumps from the blue line, and then jumps back, I realize that even my phone with all its advanced technology is having trouble navigating the city.  I come to a difficult intersection neither part seemed to be on the map.  As I paused, a shopkeeper was putting out a sign for his restaurant.  He instructs me that the road ahead was blocked because of the mosque.  Turns out, this is a common ploy.  He starts to walk with me down the alternate route talking to me the whole time.  It starts to get very narrow and windy even for Marrakech .  Suddenly, I realize I  can't see anyone else a rare occurance and one I feel is not by accident.  I look at him and realize that I have about 4-6 inches and 30 lbs on him.  I have the advantage if the next step is physical confrontation.   I look him in the eye and we continue walking.   Just before we reach a main street he stops and tells me that this way is where the palace is.  He then gives me the indication that he wants to be paid for his guid work.  I hand him 10dh,  a fair price for 2 minutes of making me feel like I'm going to be robbed.   He keeps saying that "This is nothing" he wants paper money.  I told him I paid less for dinner last night and let him know I was not going to budge.  He gives in and walks away back to his shop. I felt happy to have been done with being scammed and shuffle off to the palace.   
	Off a busy street filled with taxis I walk around to the palace guardens.  I wander about trying to find the entrance, only to realize there is a line of people just standing around apparently not waiting for anything in particular.  I go to enter and pay for the ticket.   It's 50dh and all I have is a 200dh note.  The ticket guy tries to make me pay with something smaller.  I can't so he, with a huff gives me the change, making it apparent that it is under protest.
		The guardens and the palace are glorious, peacefull and I really understand that the power of having a place that was calm with the city.  The rooms have such grace and colors that just amaze.  You realize the focus on beauty instead of oppulence is the decision.  I imagine this is an extension of the Muslim teachings.    No graven images gets rid of portraits and the importance of humility gets rid of the oppulence.  
		Drifting around and seeing all there was to see at the palace and I 'm ready for the chaos again.   I wanted to go back and plan my next stop, so I start to walk back and take in the city   I get back and try to plan the next thing.  I come up with something by the main square but when I go to find it, I fail.  No matter the heat of the day is getting to me  so I walk back and try to get in a siesta. I stop at my favorite little store and try to order a water.  I start with "Water" then go to "Eaux" then "Mer" then try and read the brand name "Sidi Ali" all of which get me blank stares. I point to it and they get me an orange fnata.  Close enough.  I start to wonder what it is that I say that makes me so hard to understand but before I get an answer I am back and Resting.  
		
##Evening
	Knowing when the salat was from the day before.  I go up to the roof at 5pm  in order to hear the call to prayer.   I have a couple of minutes to mentally prepare.  But, there really isnt much that can really simulate the sound.   There are a dozen or so minarets in easy walking distance, from where I sit on the roof.   The call is supposed to be at a specific time with respect to the angle of the sun, there are charts and predefined times on those charts.  You would then expect them to all start at the same time, however theres about a 20 second delay between the first and the last one starting.   The first one starts right behind me and is rather quiet.   Imagine the sound of someone shouting a language you dont understand through an air raid siren.  Then dub it over itself several times, and change the sample up.   It quite easily becomes a cacophony of wonderful sounds.   A real reminder that everyone's day does not look like yours.  
	
##Dinner
	I'm to meet up with Jade tonight for a late dinner, around 9pm.  It'll be nice to see a friendly face. She may not be someone I know, but I know her to be friendly and comes very well recommended.  She tells me to meet her by a pharmacy sign on a little square.  I'm worreid that I won't recognize her, to which she comforts me by saying she's a tall texand and that she will stand out.   After a few minutes of walking where I think I should be, I finally spot the sign and under it, Jade.   I wave, she waves back and I walk over and give her a hug, not of a stranger, but htat normally reserved for old friends.  But at this point, she represents home and comfort so it's like a an old friend, America.  
		We discuss where to eat and we settle on a place called Kui-Zin a highly recommended place in my guides and one of her personal favorite places. We walk towards the restaurant.   Through the streets and the chaos.  At this point the chaos doesnt get in, its around us but its not getting through to me.   Shopkeepers try to get her attention and sell her things to which she says "shukran" which means thank you in arabic.   The mere saying of the word gives us instant peace.  I store the word in my memories noting that it will be quite useful.   We sit down and talk all manner of things, mixing life advice and ideology with basic demographic geting to know you information.    We slowly make our dinner selections.  She goes with the assortment of Moroccan Salads which ends up being like a dozen small bowls filled with cold dishes.  I sample a few and they are all delicious.  I am instructed to get a pigeon pie (its actually made with chicken most of the time, and in fact tonight)  but its another maroccan thing that I will never really ever be able to get again.  Shredded chicken , toasted ground almonds, cinnamon and sugar.  All baked into a flaky phyllo like crust and topped with powdered sugar.  Its savory and sweet and just perfect.  
		We sit and enjoy our food while sitting on the roof  of this small restaurant, some musicians play traditional music while wearing Fez hats.  Jade objects to the Fez hats, as they are not necessary or appropriate for Marrakech.  We close down the restaurant and head for our respective homes.   
		The walk home is through a route I had already taken (the restaurant happened to be on the path to the pharmacy where we met) .  So its familiar but since everything was closed It wa strange and slightly unnerving.   Silence is strange while walking the streets and it starts to fill my head with the realization that I am very far away from home, and that's okay.