# London Gatwick 
## 4 May 2015: 

5am alarm goes off.  Time to catch my flight.  Grab a couple of bottles of scotch for my guide in Marrakech. Easyjet is not the friendliest of airlines, but the flight is only 3 hours.   Halfway through there’s one man dressed in traditional Arab clothing.   The flight attendant tells him to put his phone in airplane mode, about 1.5 hours into the flight. He’s clearly traveling with 3 other people.  Three on the other side of the aisle in my row the 4th is on my side of the aisle.  5 minutes later two of the men get up and walk to the front of the plane, one gets in the bathroom and the other, he waits by the door.  The man in traditional Arab clothing raises the armrests and turns 15 degrees to the left and starts bowing.  Obviously praying towards Mecca.  The remaining person starts up a conversation with me about the trip, was it my first time to Morocco etc.  Then I finally realize what has been happening.  The 4 are friends traveling for a vacation.  One is far more religious than the others and wanted to pray, the Salat apps only work with GPS turned on (so it can tell you which direction to face).  The two others used the bathroom so he had room to pray.  It was then I realized that it was time to forget anything the American media has told you about the Muslim faith and the Arab world.

Touchdown Marrakech, I go through the airport.  Grab a free sim card, as they give them to everyone coming into the country.  A genius idea so I can call home if I need to, or if you’re a nerd like me get the internet so navigation, research, and contact home is available.  Over the next day or so I spend about half an hour getting the internet working for the phone but with the maze of roads and the lack of a guide means that the alternative to having a working phone is traveling like a tourist.  So I get through security and am greeted by a sign letting me know the name of the hotel that I’m going to.  He greets me and asks if its only me and we’re off.   The airport and the surrounding areas are grand sweeping areas.   No one is in a particular hurry, the taxi driver is friendly but doesn’t speak much English. No worries, I’m just taking it all in.  We get to the car and the first song to greet me is some Destiny’s Child song.  I laugh at it and then after it’s done , he turns the radio over to a station in Arabic and we’re deeply into the unfamiliar.  

The rules of the road are vastly different.  There seems to be some sort of separation for scooters but any lane lines are completely ignored.  At one light someone in the taxi next to us.  Gets out and then just climbs on the back of the scooter stopped right next to the taxi.  The other two passengers in the taxi just sat there as if this were not unusual.  We cross through what seem to be several private estates, or hotels.  Big walled in sections with the street running straight through them.   Finally we leave the wide open spaces of the New City and reach the Medina.   The roads become similar to a pedestrian walkway that we are driving down. 5 Miles an hour is an absolute top speed, but luckily we don’t have far to go, every 100 yards or so there’s a square.  We stop in a place, thus after known as “Welcome to Africa Square”, which is chaotic.  There’s a functional fountain in front of the car from which some merchants are filling buckets of water.  Around the perimeter of the square there is a row of old men sitting in the shade of some structures coming out from the buildings.  They look like pergolas but there are small remnants of roof parts on them.  

All of a sudden, we come to a stop.  A man walks up quickly and reaches into the car.  Says a few things to the driver, and asks if I can pay the driver the 150 dh I owe him.  I say I have 200dh bills only.  He takes one from me, walks over to a stall and then comes back with the 150dh for the driver and the 50dh change for me.  He then introduces himself as the manager of the house I’m staying at.   He guides me out of the car, and down a set of narrow (as if there is any other kind in this city) alleys, to a metal cage of a door.  He pushes a button and someone comes to the door to let us in.   Through the inner door.  He directs me to my room, and shows me the toilet for the floor (We got our own showers just not the commode).  Then we go back down to the center of the house and he instructs me to sit down.  Asks if I want tea, and asks for my passport so he can do some paperwork.  Tea! Yes, this was one of the try.  

Moroccan tea is great, I’m later told it’s basically just cheap green tea poured over a ton of mint. I swear I taste black tea in there as well but I am probably mistaken.  The manager takes a pot of tea, puts a cube of sugar in the bottom of a small narrow glass.  The then starts to pour it into the glass and over the sugar.  The sugar is not like any sugar I’ve seen before, its grains are large and it’s not exactly square, it looks like someone’s first attempt at a sugar cube.  He pours it from like a foot or two above the glass. It foams up nicely and I take my first sip.  It’s beautiful. It’s transcendent.  It’s the finest cup of tea I’ve ever had in my life.  It tastes like someone took a good cup of English tea, mixed it with some southern sweet tea, mixed in some Asian green tea and then threw a bit of mint on it.   It reminds me of all of my past.   The British Teas of my summers with Grandma.  The sweetness of the Florida Sweet Tea of Mrs Cole.   I realize at this point that my trip is going to awaken parts of me I hadn’t even imagined.   

The manager suggests I go to the main square (Jemaa el-Fnaa),  he’s going to walk me to it.   He shows me the series of turns to get me to a road, and “Welcome to Africa Square”.  We walk down the road through “Fish Square” and then I’m instructed to turn at this particular intersection.  It is almost doubling back on myself and I was afraid I would forget which one it was.  Then I saw this sign that said “Cyber Internet” which is somehow 40 years old.  I know that is a noticeable landmark and commit it to memory.  I then walk down that street through “Wall Market” and “Chicken square”, to reach the berber market.  I continue straight and finally reach the main square. The main square is largely anticlimactic.  The entire route from the hotel has been lined with vendors, its early in the day, so half of them are still shuttered, or just setting up.    But it’s still largely overwhelming.   There's voices calling out to you almost constantly.  

