# 7 May 2015

## Morning

Wake.  Eat.  Cab.  Nothing of extraordinary interest there.   The cab ride is almost noteworthy lack of interest which may be due to my adjustment to Marrakech.  Arriving at the airport I pay and go to check in .   Trying to check in is difficult, it seems as though I might as well be the oly person ever to take just this flight.  They're confused as to how to proceed if I am not going out of the country.   It really seems like I'm doing the equivalent of JFK to Newark and therefore no one else would be dumb enough to do it.  Inexplicably its a 3 hour drive or a 4 hour train,  I figured plane would be a more efficient plan but we will see where my ingenuity gets me. 
	
## The Airport

Guards wander around the airport two armed and one officer  the whole time.  It seems to me that 90% of those not questionably employed are employed by the state.   The song "Un Home Et une Femme " plays on a continuous loop throughout the airport.   It feels like sitting in some sort of limbo where time, existence and sense have all long left.  I purchase the song and start to listen to it on my own headphones so I'm in control of something.  Like the inmate who locks himself up so he can control anything in his life the song is so imprinted into my brain as to become irrevocably intertwined with my very soul right now that I am convinced that my last breath will be accompanied by the swelling strings in this song as I gracefully cross the river that no man recrosses.  There's part of me that believes that the world will fade out of color and into black and white, and text will slowly crawl across the sky to the song which will fade away and be left with just the word "fin" 
Back in the land of reality,  They get us through security which was the lightest I've ever seen. I left everything in my bags (liquids, tech etc) left my jacket on.  There were 5 people standing around all in official outfits.  One checked your boarding pass and confirmed that you were only going to "Casa"  to which I replied "Du Jour" The man Laughed and waved me through thus cementing my though that I'm the only one ever.  There was a separate gate for the domestic only people and I was convinced that they would just take a picture of a plan and magician's trick it into a bus.  Then you walk though the metal detector which beeps for 100% of the people so the man doing the bag check just pats you down. They have a lady there for lady pat downs. They deem the guy in a suit jacket not a threat and just wave me through. I walk outside and see the plane.  I walk towards it but being that I'm at an airport t I walk along the lines and then plan to turn left I and go at a right angle to the plane.  This gets me yelled at so they guide me back to my origin and direct me to walk the hypotenuse instead. The plane pulls away 15 minutes ahead of the time on the ticket the first thing to be even as much as on time here.  The Moroccans seem to only have time as it is forced upon them by outsiders, for them its essentially useless.  The flight is over so quickly it's hard to wonder why people laughed at my choice to take it.  

##The Taxi

It seems confusing to take the train to get into the city and meet my host. So I, at his suggestion, take a taxi. It's a wonderful old Mercedes with just shy of 500k miles on it I call my host to have him speak to the driver. The driver hands me a piece of paper with the price on it.  It's 10$ more than I'm expecting but I think, "fine"  We take the 40 minute drive into the city.   The driver is quite pleasant.  Making sure I'm comfortable and drawing my attention to things.   He was especially proud of pointing out the American Embassy.  The embassy is this dark imposing building with wire fences and brick walls and cameras everywhere.  It looks like a giant black knight turned into a building to further oppress the peasants. We pull up to a hospital and stop. My driver prompts me to dial my phone nad hand it to him.  So I do.  He yalks to my host, and turns off the car  Thinking this is the end of my trip I settle up.  An elderly man walks up to the car and reaches at the driver, apparently he wants a light for his ciggarette, my driver assist him and several more minutes pass without event.   A car comes up and rolls down its windows.  Some arabic is spoken and away we go.  We drive half a mile or so and suddenly come to a stop.  It dawns on me that the other car is my host and the taxi driver didnt know my destination street.  I think, why would he its two blocks long.  The taxi driver charges me some more which at this poitn I'm too disoriented to really care about the 100Dh.  I deal with the host and settle into the flat.   

## Dinner
The neighboorhood is a bit rough so I decide to eat dinner early before it gets too dark.  I pull up a place on TripAdvisor and walk towards it.  I walk down the street its on and its not there.  No worries there was a french restaurant that sounded good on the site.  I'll go there.  Pull it up on google maps and start ofllowing the dots.  Looking for the name of the restaurant or the hotel it's supposed to be in.  I get to the end of the dots without success. I'll just keep going another block, do a big u turn and see if i can spot it on the way back, swing and a miss again.   I start aimlessly wander looking for something delicious.  Eventually I see a logo I recognize ,  it's a Thai place .   I saw this place on Trip-Whatever and it was really well liked, great.  I look inside and it's empty, I generally avoid empty places but I ignore it as the manager is very welcoming and speaks English.  I sit down,  he tells me what's good, so I order that.  My waitress comes over and starts to help me.  She's a tall statuesque very dark, black lady, in my broken French I thank her and try to navigate the food in front of me.  She and I could not seem to communicate. I eventually pull up my phone and translate how to say that "I'm so sorry I can't speak with you well". I read the output in my best French and she gives me a puzzled look and scurries off to the owner who has shown up and speaks English very well.  He tells me that she doesn't understand what I was trying to say, to which I replied that I was apologizing for not being able to talk to her.  He explains this to her and we all have a hearty laugh at the trouble of it rest of dinner is quite delicious, I pay and tip her well for all the the stress I put on her with my poor language skills. 


# 8 May 2015

The  next morning my sole goal is to visit the Hassan II mosque.   The only thing of real note in casa it sounds.   My plan is to scope it out, eat some lunch then go in at the 3 or 4 pm tour.  On Friday's there are no morning tours, because they are having services.   I wander around and get no clue as to how to approach.  I decide to go down to the water front for a bit anyway.  The tide is out so I walk out on the rocks and enjoy watching the tidal pools,  the small fish and critters that inhabit them while the tide is out.  It was the first real peace I have found in Casablanca and it was welcomed.  I decide this is a particularly good spot so I take the opportunity to take pictures of myself here.   The next step is to find food.   After about an hour of walking I decided nothing was to my liking and decided to head home and drink my soda from the night before, Almost a block from the apt a little market is open ,  I buy a bit of bread for 1Dh and the clerk says something to me to indicate that I had paid too much.  I waved him off. He laughed and said goodbye so I wandered home to enjoy my lunch.    

The whole time i could hear talking coming from the mosque, it sounds like a sermon with the changing tones and repeating words.   Although I don't understand the language at all, It still sounds very familiar. I take a moment and record some of the audio.  

Around 3pm I make my way to the mosque again to try and do the tour.   I wandered around the grounds seeing no evidence of a tour.  I saw some french speaking retirees.  I knew that when you take a tour they give you a plastic bag for your shoes.  I looked at one of the retirees and gestured to his bag and made a looking around face and then a question gesture.  He seemed to understand and pointed me to a building by the front of the yard .  I walked to it., but it was simply a museum.  I ran into some girls who spoke English, I explain that I was lost and they asked me what I was looking for.  By this point in  time I had given up hope for a tour and I said "I'm not exactly sure,  I was just told to visit this place"  Their reply was that If i wasnt sure where I  was going  then how was I lost.  A philosophical answer I was not prepared for.  After a while I got bold and saw the place where I should go.  For your reference its to the left of the Minaret and down the stairs to the left.  Once down there I was assure as to what was going on.   The tour was amazing, such a grand building.  If you think your path to God is more noble than the muslim path, you have been severely misinformed.  It simply does not matter what your beliefs are, once you are in that building a sense of calm reverence overcomes you.

My tour guide was a wonderful woman.  She had a dry wit about her and was proud of the fact of being on the floor of the mosque,  when services are going on she is only allowed in the balcony.  They even have separate entrances for women to direct them up to the balcony.   Much has been said about the building itself.  I'll leave that to those more informed than I,  I simply know it was well worth visiting.  

Back home for a rest after then out for dinner.   I was less overwhelmed by the neighborhood so I went for a sunset dinner.   The seafood place nearby did a fried everything dinner with moroccan salads.  I did not know what to order my waiter just guided me there.  After the salads arrive I tried to order water again.  I started with Eaux, then what drew stares, I tried 'sidi ali'  to which he responded 'coke'  and wandered off, well a coke is what I received.  I ate my meal and was charged exactly what I thought I would be,  a rarity for the trip.   A little overfull from fried seafood I went for a stroll along the seafront.   Friday night is apparently date night, with all sorts of young couples walking hand in hand and sitting along the seawall.  The girls dressed in outfits that ranged from something that would be at home in the midwest, to full head coverings and modest clothes.  The boys almost all were dressed like soccer players, with fancy haircuts and jerseys.  Happy with the hands in which the country was going to be in in the future,  I decide to walk back to the apartment and rest.   I watch some Looney Tunes in Arabic and drift off to sleep. 
		
## 9 May 2015
	
The trip to the airport was uneventful,  a taxi to a train and off at the airport without any surprises.  Off to Heathrow and off of this continent.  I'm certain it won't be my last trip to her.
